WT-15425 Add readme doc in conn to explain compaction skip and cleanup (#12636)
wiredtiger/wiredtiger: src/conn/README.md

> # Conn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Connection (conn)
```

> ## Compaction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Background Compaction
```

### Overview

> Compaction is implemented in [conn_compact.c](conn_compact.c).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Background compaction is implemented in [conn_compact.c](conn_compact.c).
```

> Background compaction is implemented in [conn_compact.c](conn_compact.c).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The background compaction thread is implemented in [conn_compact.c](conn_compact.c).
```

> ### When will a compaction action be skipped

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### When is a file skipped?
```

> ### When is a file skipped?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Compaction Heuristics
```

> The code implementation is [__background_compact_should_skip](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_compact.c#L233-L311).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They key heuristics used to determine whether a file should be compacted are covered in [__background_compact_should_skip](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_compact.c#L233-L311).
```

> The key skip judges are (order matters):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These include (order matters):
```

> 1. A table can be configured to skip compaction using `exclude=["table:a.wt"]`, the configuration is parsed in [__background_compact_exclude_list_process](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_compact.c#L100-L120) , you can find an example in [test_compact06](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/test/suite/test_compact06.py#L38)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. A table can be configured to be skipped by compaction using the parameter `exclude=["table:a.wt"]`, the configuration is parsed in [__background_compact_exclude_list_process](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_compact.c#L100-L120) , you can find an example in [test_compact06](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/test/suite/test_compact06.py#L38)
```

1. File size < `1MB`

> 1. `background_compact.max_file_skip_time` (unit of Seconds), If the elapsed time since the last compaction run on the same URI exceeds this threshold and the device is ready, the compaction.

Reviewer 2: What do you mean by device? And it seems that the last bit of the sentence is incomplete.
```suggestion
1. `background_compact.max_file_skip_time` (unit of Seconds). If the elapsed time since the last compaction run on the same URI exceeds this threshold and the device is ready, the compaction.
```

> 1. `background_compact.max_file_skip_time` (unit of Seconds), If the elapsed time since the last compaction run for the same URI does not exceed this threshold, the compaction will be skipped.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `background_compact.max_file_skip_time` (unit of Seconds). If the elapsed time since the last compaction run for the same URI does not exceed this threshold, the compaction will be skipped.
```

> 1. `background_compact.max_file_skip_time` (unit of Seconds), If the elapsed time since the last compaction run for the same URI does not exceed this threshold, the compaction will be skipped.

Reviewer 2: I think we should word this sentence differently:

```suggestion
1. `background_compact.max_file_skip_time` (unit of Seconds). If the elapsed time since the last compaction run for the same URI has exceeded this threshold, the file is selected for compaction.
```

   1. The configuration of `debug_mode.background_compact` controls the value, we have [two hardcoded configurations](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_api.c#L2158-L2176).

> 1. A previous compaction failure matters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A previous compaction failure occurred. 
```

>    1. The configuration of `debug_mode.background_compact` controls the value, we have [two hardcoded configurations](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_api.c#L2158-L2176).

Reviewer 2: I think you meant three of them but I am not sure if this is the right place to introduce the debug mode of background compaction.

```suggestion
   1. The configuration of `debug_mode.background_compact` controls the value, we have [three hardcoded configurations](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_api.c#L2158-L2176).
```

Author: As the number here is meaningless, so [hardcoded configurations] maybe a better text here.

   1. Assume the last compaction failed — retrying too soon is likely to fail again, so the retry is skipped to prevent repeated failures.
   1. Combined with the previous condition, this means that within each `max_file_skip_time` period, there can be at most one failed compaction.

> ### When to remove a compaction stat from the connection list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Removing a compaction stat from the connection list
```

The cleanup logic is implemented in [__background_compact_list_cleanup](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_compact.c#L412-L447).

> The `cleanup_type` matters for action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three types of cleanup as indicated by `cleanup_type`:
```

> There are three types of cleanup as indicated by `cleanup_type`:

Reviewer 2: Should we use the full names for the different types?

Author: Don't think so, as:
1. They all have same prefix, redundant here.
2. When reach this text, readers have enough context to know what this means.
3. The code links can help explain any details required to understand this.
4. We should keep the doc short and clear, as it's written for developers

- For `EXIT` and `OFF` type, the function will clear all the stats directly.
- For `STALE_STAT` type, the function attempts to remove statistics that have been idle for a long time. 
   - The entrance is from the [__background_compact_server](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_compact.c#L572-L574)

>    - In this mode, `background_compact.max_file_idle_time` (unit of Seconds) will be used to identify which stat is idled too long. And same to `max_file_skip_time`, the reference time point is from last compact run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - In this mode, `background_compact.max_file_idle_time` (unit of Seconds) will be used to identify which stat has not been updated for too long. And same to `max_file_skip_time`, the reference time point is from last compact run.
```

>       - Same to `max_file_skip_time` this is controlled by configuration of `debug_mode.background_compact` with [two hardcoded configurations](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_api.c#L2158-L2176). 

Reviewer 2: Do you mean three?
```suggestion
      - Same to `max_file_skip_time` this is controlled by configuration of `debug_mode.background_compact` with [three hardcoded configurations](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_api.c#L2158-L2176). 
```

> - For `EXIT` and `OFF` type, the function will clear all the stats directly.
> - For `STALE_STAT` type, the function attempts to remove statistics that have been idle for a long time. 
>    - The entrance is from the [__background_compact_server](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_compact.c#L572-L574)
>    - In this mode, `background_compact.max_file_idle_time` (unit of Seconds) will be used to identify which stat has not been updated for too long. And same to `max_file_skip_time`, the reference time point is from last compact run.
>       - Same to `max_file_skip_time` this is controlled by configuration of `debug_mode.background_compact` with [hardcoded configurations](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_api.c#L2158-L2176). 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For `STALE_STAT` type, the function attempts to remove statistics that have been idle for a long time. 
   - The entrance is from the [__background_compact_server](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_compact.c#L572-L574)
   - Idle time metrics include:
      - `background_compact.max_file_idle_time` (seconds), used to remove tracking of files that have not been updated after a long time (usually a result of file deletion).
      - `max_file_skip_time`, max compact wait time from last compact run. The debug mode `debug_mode.background_compact` provides a shorter time period for testing purposes, see the [hardcoded configurations](https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/blob/cec2d68c2a51be610745b4ab481c572aaec08d3c/src/conn/conn_api.c#L2158-L2176). 

```

> # Connection (conn)

Reviewer 2: Just saw this, do we need `(conn)`?
```suggestion
# Connection
```

Reviewer: much of a muchness

Author: OK, I'll remove this, less is better
